                                                                              Privileges

In discussing security, it should be necessary of fully protecting the entire server host (not simply the MySQL server) against all types of applicable attacks: eavesdropping, 
altering, playback, and denial of service.

MySQL uses security based on Access Control Lists (ACLs) for all connections, queries, and other operations that a user may attempt to perform. There is also some support for
SSL-encrypted connections between MySQL clients and servers. Many of the concepts discussed here are not specific to MySQL at all; the same general ideas apply to almost all 
applications. 

The privileges granted to a MySQL account determine which operations the account can perform. MySQL privileges differ in the contexts in which they apply and at different levels of
operation:
i.)Administrative privileges enable users to manage operation of the MySQL server. These privileges are global because they are not specific to a particular database.

ii.)Database privileges apply to a database and to all objects within it. These privileges can be granted for specific databases, or globally so that they apply to all databases.

iii.)Privileges for database objects such as tables, indexes, views, and stored routines can be granted for specific objects within a database, for all objects of a given type 
within a database (for example, all tables in a database), or globally for all objects of a given type in all databases.

The GRANT and REVOKE commands are used for controlling access to MySQL. Do not grant any more privileges than necessary. Never grant privileges to all hosts.

Privileges should be granted to only the person(s) who are assigned to make changes in a database/table. If a person thinks it is necessary to grant the other user the privileges,
then only should the privileges be granted. 
If the privilege is no longer required for the person, one should immediately revoke the privileges from the other person to keep the database secured.

A user can be grant the following privileges:
i.)   SELECT 
ii.)  INSERT
iii.) UPDATE
iv.)  DELETE
v.)   ALL PRIVILEGES

To create a user to grant all the privileges in the project, the following should be written in mysql:


CREATE USER 'sanidhya'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';

The above line creates a user 'sanidhya' who can log in the project/database by entering the password 'password' in mysql. 
The user here is not granted the privilege to access the database yet. The next step is to assign which privileges should be granted to the user 'sanidhya'. 
If the user 'sanidhya' is the owner of the project, he can be granted all the privileges by writing the following statement in mysql.

GRANT ALL ON *.* TO 'sanidhya'@'localhost' WITH GRANT OPTION;

The above line gives permission to the user 'sanidhya' to access all the contents of the project which is done using '*.*' (wild card characters which means here all available
tables in the database). 
As another user 'nathaniel' is also a part of the project, he needs to be granted access to the whole project to create or to makes changes in the database.

CREATE USER 'david'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';

GRANT ALL ON *.* TO 'nathaniel'@'localhost' WITH GRANT OPTION;

To see the users created in the project, write the following statement in the mysql:

SELECT Host,User from mysql.user;


If any suspicious user is seen or found in the project, immediately REVOKE the grants and drop the user from the project.
Do not trust any data entered by your users. They can try to trick your code by entering special or escaped character sequences in web forms, URLs, or whatever application you 
have built. Be sure that your application remains secure if a user enters something like "; DROP DATABASE mysql;“. This is an extreme example, but large security leaks and
data loss may occur as a result of hackers using similar techniques, if you do not prepare for them.


