Hotel Management System

Description:

The hotel management system is designed to solve the problem of keeping track of the various assets the hotel has, as well as staff and
clients. The hope is that through using a computerized system in a database rather than paper bookkeeping, the hotel will be able to
offer online services to clients, as well as have faster access to relevant data when talking with customers, or when reviewing the 
business.

The scope of this system would be to a single hotel, though it could theoretically be expanded to allow multiple hotels under the
same company. We want to prove that this management system will work in a single hotel, before potentially expanding it to accomodate
more.

We expect the system users to be able to: See and modify guests (Id's, Names, DOB, Addresses, Emails, Phone Numbers) 
See and modify the status of rooms (Room number, GuestID's, Reservation Id's, Room Types, Room floor) See and 
modify Payments (Payment ID's, Reservation ID's, Guest ID's, Payment Types, Amounts, Payment Dates, Discount) See and
modify housekeeping informations (Employee ID's, Names, Phone numbers) See and modify shifts for
housekeeping (Employee ID's, Start times, stop times, dates)


The 20 queries required are written below:

1. Find all the guests that have reserved a room.

2. Find all the employees working on a specific date.

3. Find all the rooms that need to be cleaned.

4. Find the guest who has made a reservation for a specific room.

5. Find the room numbers of all rooms available for booking.

6. Find the shifts of all the housekeepers.

7. Find all the payments made to the hotel in the last month in order to make a cash flow statement.

8. Find the emails of all system users for an advertisement to be sent.

9. Find all the payments a guest has made to our hotel.

10. Find all the rooms that have been cleaned by housekeeping, so we can make them available again.

11. Find the payment made by a guest on a certain date to issue a refund.

12. Find which housekeeper cleaned the specific room.

13. List all the guests name who checked-in more than twice this month.

14. List all system users and housekeepers who worked for more than 30 hours this week.

15. List all the guests that stayed in non-smoking rooms

16. Find the list of all customers that were given Veteren or AAA discount on specific date.

17. Find the list of all guests that made payment by American Express.

18. Find the user employee who was working when "John Smith" arrived on a specific date.

19. List all reservations that had more than 2 people in a room.

20. Find the housekeepers who cleaned the room that had pets.
